=head1 NAME

XML::DOM::Text - A piece of XML text in XML::DOM

=head1 DESCRIPTION

XML::DOM::Text extends L<XML::DOM::CharacterData>, which extends
L<XML::DOM::Node>.

The Text interface represents the textual content (termed character
data in XML) of an Element or Attr. If there is no markup inside an
element's content, the text is contained in a single object
implementing the Text interface that is the only child of the element.
If there is markup, it is parsed into a list of elements and Text nodes
that form the list of children of the element.

When a document is first made available via the DOM, there is only one
Text node for each block of text. Users may create adjacent Text nodes
that represent the contents of a given element without any intervening
markup, but should be aware that there is no way to represent the
separations between these nodes in XML or HTML, so they will not (in
general) persist between DOM editing sessions. The normalize() method
on Element merges any such adjacent Text objects into a single node for
each block of text; this is recommended before employing operations
that depend on a particular document structure, such as navigation with
XPointers.

=head2 METHODS

=over 4

=item splitText (offset)

Breaks this Text node into two Text nodes at the specified
offset, keeping both in the tree as siblings. This node then
only contains all the content up to the offset point. And a
new Text node, which is inserted as the next sibling of this
node, contains all the content at and after the offset point.

Parameters:
 I<offset>  The offset at which to split, starting from 0.

Return Value: The new Text node.

DOMExceptions:

=over 4

=item * INDEX_SIZE_ERR

Raised if the specified offset is negative or greater than the number of 
characters in data.

=item * NO_MODIFICATION_ALLOWED_ERR

Raised if this node is readonly.

=back

=back
